The 27 Club has become one of the most unfortunate and tragic coincidences in the history
of music industry. It primarily consists of musicians who would rise to become pioneers of their generations in their genre - from jazz to rock to grunge. The term became widely used after Kurt Cobain was found dead with a suicide note nearby in 1994. Heartbroken rock fans connected his age to that of Jimi Hendrix, Brian Jones, Janis Joplin, and Jim Morrison. Such a coincidence was particularly pronounced to music fans in the early 1970s when those four visionary artists passed away within only two years of each other. When the media broke the news of Amy Winehouse's passing at age 27 in 2011, more people took notice of the significance of the age. Many music lovers had a hard time getting over the untimely loss of such a young life. Influenced by her jazz-loving family, Amy Winehouse drew in audiences with her debut album Frank at the age of 19. Ingeniously mixing soul, R&B, reggae and jazz into her work, the singer with her signature beehive hairdo and heavy winged eyeliner produced Back to Black a few years later in 2006, transforming her into a record-breaking winner of multiple Grammy Awards. But Winehouse found it awfully hard to relish the fruits of her toil. The artist had long been struggling with drug dependency and her self-destructive behavior, and she would sometimes appear so drunk or disoriented at her own gigs that she was booed offstage. After calling off a few shows in June 2011 to sober herself up, the troubled British chanteuse died the following month of alcohol poisoning. Nobody knows what Winehouse's state of mind was when she took her last gulps of vodka. However, she obviously felt sick and tired of her career. Despite being incredibly frank and candid in many aspects, she had been unable to break free from her own image. And, as with Janis Joplin, the man she loved was evidently absent at the end. So were the rest that Amy had depended heavily upon and, in many cases, exhausted. Actually, there is no official membership since the club is entirely notional. Yet, the legacies of artists like Amy Winehouse have been immortalized by their premature deaths at 27.

