Your smartphone has become almost an extension of your persona. Not only is it always with you, but its contents often reflect your life and state of mind. Unlike you, it runs on battery power and must be recharged often to function properly. Without a charging station nearby, maximizing battery life is crucial to your device's smarts.  Here are some strategies you can use every day to conserve battery life and the life of your precious handset, without having to throw an extended-life battery or a portable charger into your backpack. First, as soon as you see an app has released an update, jump on it because that will help maintain your battery. Developers enhance their apps periodically, and part of the reason is to optimize memory and device battery life. Such updates are often tagged as bug fixes in the update notes on the app or in Google Play Store. They may not be splashy or rock new features, but they will help keep your smartphone battery in good working order. Updating your smartphones manually is especially instrumental in preserving battery life. Next, keep your phone tidy and up to date with only the apps you need and use for the current purpose. Your phone is not the place to get sentimental about old favorites. You might as well lose them because every app that takes up needless bandwidth on your phone may be running battery-draining routines in the background. Most people love wallpaper, especially the animated kind it's one of the fun parts of having a phone. But that viewing pleasure comes at the expense of your battery. Black or dark wallpaper conserves battery life because the screen uses energy to illuminate only colored pixels. Black pixels are not lit and require less power to maintain the image, not to mention the fact that dark wallpapers are easy on the eyes. Live wallpapers, though the effect is variable, tend to use more battery power. Last, it boosts battery life to disable the location service.	Keeping that function on full time for all your apps will definitely affect battery life. Convenient though it may be if you are geotagging your photos, most apps don't need to track your location in the background, and most people don't need their smartphone apps following them around.
