Bees, particularly honeybees, have been around for millions of years and are responsible for pollinating over a third of our supply and 90% of wild plants. Pollination is the key step in the reproduction of many plants. The honeybees are one of the leading pollinators of several kinds of our food crops.  They are so essential in crop pollination that some farmers “rent” them or ship them in to pollinate their crops in the spring. For years, however, the honeybee population has been decreasing, which poses a major threat to global agriculture and our future. According to the research of Wageningen University in the U.S., if one day bees should go extinct, 10% of our world food production would be lost. For example, strawberries would probably be the first type of food to disappear. Besides, the amount of variation in our food would also decrease. What’s more, people would lack many vitamins and minerals because bees could help spread such nutrients in our food. What are the factors that cause the decline in honeybees?  There are a lot to be discussed by experts. One is changes in agriculture. Over the years, farmers have used weed killers and cultivate monocultures that cover a huge amount of agriculture area. Thus, bees have fewer and fewer options to feed and pollinate. Another is the use of pesticides on a large scale.  Farmers use pesticides to minimize the damage to the plants, causing a lower level of nectar and pollen in a plant. And bees with a low dose of pesticides can’t find their way back to the hive. Still other causes include habitat loss, climate change, increased disease incidence, and so on. In reality, the multiple causes make it harder to do something about what’s called Colony Collapse Disorder—a phenomenon that occurs when the majority of worker bees in a colony disappear.    The phenomenon has caused as much as one-third of the bees in U.S. to just disappear over the winter each year since 2006.  However, we humans still need to try our best to solve the problem—to save the honeybees. Otherwise we may really face less food production and limited food access one day.
