A careless father has been arrested after leaving his 3-month-old daughter in an overheated car where she may have succumbed to heatstroke. The horrific accident, however, was far from a rare occurrence. So far this year, 31 children have died from overheating while trapped in parked vehicles. "The problem is a serious one," said Nate Carr, president of the safety nonprofit Safe Kids. According to the group's research, such heartbreaking tragedies occur under various circumstances. Some children are intentionally left inside cars while their parents do errands. Some crawled into vehicles on their own. The majority of them, however, are victims of sheer forgetfulness. They were mistakenly left behind by a parent or caregiver who was preoccupied with other things. People seem unaware how dangerous hot car interiors can be for small bodies. Because children's thermoregulatory system is not fully developed, their bodies heat up much faster than adults. Moreover, the inside of a vehicle creates a "greenhouse effect," trapping in heat. In just 10 minutes, a car's temperature can rise more than 20 degrees. In the worst-case scenario, if a child is small and on the sunny side of the car, death can occur within 15 minutes. To prevent hot car deaths, safety experts are pushing automakers to come up with effective tech solutions. One potential solution is General Motors' Rear Seat Reminder. The system is designed to alert a motorist to check the back seat when exiting the vehicle. Child safety experts are hailing the concept as a good first step. Some, however, lament the fact that more sophisticated systems have failed to materialize despite years of promises. Back in 2002, for instance, General Motor rolled out a system that would sound the horn to alert a parent or passersby when the heartbeat of a child is detected in a parked vehicle. While conceptually sound, the tech solution has never proved reliable enough. Nor have technologies unveiled by other automakers. It seems that parents will have to wait for a few more years before a reliable high-tech solution hits the market.
