What do you do when the sun sinks? If you’re reading this, chances are you switch on a light. But for the 1.3 billion people around the globe who lack access to electricity, darkness is a harsh reality.  There is no electric light for children to do their homework by, no power to run refrigerators that keep perishables or needed medicine cold, no power for cooking stoves or microwaves. The light they have chiefly comes from the same sources that humans have relied on forever – firewood, charcoal or dung. Tragically, the resulting smoke turns into indoor pollution claiming more than 3.5 million lives year after year. Michael Elliott, president and CEO of the nonprofit organization ONE, says life for people capturing various aspects of human well-being does not stop after nightfall. However, for 550 million people in sub-Saharan Africa, which lies south of the Sahara Desert, and many more than that around the rest of the world, it does. That lack of electricity is called energy poverty, and it’s a development challenge that hasn’t gotten the attention it deserves. It’s plain to see why. Extreme poverty, global hunger, HIV AIDS and malaria are all immediate threats to human life.  Having nowhere to plug in a cell phone, by contrast, might seem like an inconvenience at worst. But energy poverty is connected to a host of deeper ills: 90% of the children in sub-Saharan Africa go to primary schools that lack electricity, which means no fans or air conditioners in the equatorial heat, no computers, no lights for evening classes. What’s worse, economic growth has been stunted as a result of lack of access to modern types of energy (e.g., electricity).  For example, 60% of African businesses cite access to reliable power as a binding constraint on their operations. Energy poverty is even a political issue and riots over power shortages are not new.  In Pakistan, which has just half the electrical-generation capacity of the state of Virginia, frustration over an antiquated grid and power shortage caused governmental instability and helped get President Asif Ali Zardari kicked out of office.
