As a resident of Taipei City and a bike lover I have to commend the city's effort to launch the so-called "U-Bike" rental system, which has been expanded to a wider portion of the city. Rentals used to be available only in Xinyi District, where one could ride through all those glamorous department stores in that area. Currently the system has been expanded to many MRT stations, as well as areas surrounding National Taiwan University. Bicycling through the NTU campus can be a relaxing and escaping experience after working in a tense and grueling work environment. The renting process is as simple as it gets. You can either rent as a member of the U-Bike system or on a pay-as-you-go basis. The latter option requires the use of a credit card and must be done at a kiosk at the rental station. For this reason I recommend the first option. All you need to do is sign up to become a member at the U-Bike website, www.youbike.com.tw. Then, if you have a Taipei Easy Card, find the serial number at the lower right corner and enter that number. Each member can have up to five cards under his or her name. After registration, all you have to do is go to the bicycle rental station, point your card at the sensor, and get the bike. The rental fee is NT$IO per 30 minutes. You can return the bike at any rental station you want. Just remember to point the East Card at the system again to have the fee deducted from the card. Sparing no effort to promote this service, the city government is now sponsoring the first 30 minutes' rental. This means, if you "check out" a U-bike in less than half an hour, you're basically getting a free ride, faster than all the other means of transport — as well as getting a good workout. With an offer to please even the most budget-conscious resident, there is no more excuse not to use this service! Once you get started, I guarantee you will get addicted to it. I suggest all residents of this great city should try using this system whenever possible. Let's work together to keep our city clean and green.
