How many of us could honestly say that we spend every moment of our working hours on work-related activity? We are deviating from work tasks from time to time — a cup of coffee and a brief chat, a quick phone call to fix a dental appointment. We all enjoy this little escape from our boring work, and usually without harmful consequences. But in the 21st century, there's a distraction at our fingertips like nothing ever experienced by previous generations. We can shop, read the news, and talk to friends as we tap away at a keyboard with our eyes glued to the screen. To the less keen observer, we might appear to be working hard on some professional task. However, we are actually sitting behind computer screens and watching cat videos, shopping online and updating our Facebook statuses. Making personal use of the Internet during working hours is now a commonplace activity, and it's known as cyberloafing. Cyberloafing has become more prevalent in the workplace in the United States. It was estimated that cyberloafing accounted for nearly a third of workers' time at the turn of the millennium. In 2013, this statistic more than doubled. A study undertaken by researchers at Kansas State University revealed that in 2013, the average worker spends 60 to 80 percent of his or her time at the office engaging in tasks that have nothing to do with their jobs. Older people are doing things like managing their finances, whereas younger employees spend time on social networking sites, like Facebook and Twitter. Researchers also noted that cyberloafing can pose a great menace to a company. Employers lose a great deal of money in lost productivity. They also have to pay legal liability if pornography or other inappropriate material has been accessed on office computers. To counter this practice, surveillance software is sometimes used to monitor employees' online activities. Disciplinary measures are sometimes also used, and in extreme cases employees are dismissed. Though such measures often prove effective, managing cyberloafing presents a tricky dilemma for employers. Employee morale can be adversely affected when workers feel that someone is constantly looking over their shoulder. It's therefore often difficult for employers to strike the right balance between maintaining productivity and respecting employee privacy and personal freedom.
