Anyone with an interest in wine can become a wine taster. Just follow the steps below with your basic senses, and you will learn how to appreciate wines. Looking at a wine is the first step of wine tasting. Tilting the glass away from you, preferably against a white background, exposes the different shades of color. Check out the color, clarity and opacity. In very general terms, the best wines actually have a luscious sheen to them, while commercial, heavily treated ones can look dull and monotonous.  Then comes our sense of smell, which is critical in properly analyzing a glass of wine. Since a wine’s flavor molecules are given off only on the liquid’s surface, they can be seriously encouraged by maximizing the wine’s surface area. To help vaporize some of the wine’s alcohol and release more of its natural aromas, swirl your glass for a solid 10-12 seconds and then take a quick sniff. Notice whether the smell is clean and attractive, how intense the smell is, and what the smell reminds you of. Finally, take a mouthful of wine and let it roll around your mouth. Make sure that all of the palate is exposed to the liquid. The initial impression that the wine makes on your palate depends on four components: alcohol content, tannin levels, acidity and residual sugar. They meld together and ideally are well-balanced, leaving no single one more prominent than the others.  Another great indicator of quality at this stage is length – how long does the impact of the wine last after you swallow it? Can you taste the remnant of the wine on the back of your mouth and throat? Many a mediocre wine leaves no trace on the palate, whereas a mouthful of really fine wine can continue to reverberate for 30 seconds or more.   Once you have tasted a few wines, you can build on that experience by noticing the common characteristics of the wines you like. Have confidence in your own judgments. In wine appreciation, the opinion of the novice is every bit as valuable as that of the expert. Wine preferences are so subjective that it is important not to be mesmerized by wine critics’ ratings.  After all, no one other than you can know exactly how a wine strikes your senses.
