Human beings sometimes break down under pressure. Under the glare of competition, basketball players cannot find the basket and golfers cannot find the pin. When that happens, we say that people have panicked or, to use the sports colloquialism, choked. But what do those words mean? Are all forms of failure equal? And what do the forms in which we fail say about who we are and how we think? In an age obsessed with success, there is still much to be learned from the myriad of ways in which talented people sometimes fail. (1) Explicit learning works when people learn new things (e.g. how to hit a backhand). You think them through in a very delicate and mechanical manner. (2) When implicit learning kicks in, you start to develop accuracy and touch. That's why athletes perfect their skills through hours of practice. Under conditions of stress, the explicit system takes over. That's what it means to choke: when you start to think too much. Top athletes lose their ability to respond quickly, playing with the slow, cautious deliberation of a beginner. (3) An All-Star player with the Twins before joining the Yankees, he started to have trouble throwing the ball to the first base in the Yankees uniform. Under the stress of playing in front of forty thousand fans at the Yankee Stadium, he found himself returning to the explicit mode, throwing like a Little Leaguer again. Panic is something else altogether. When panic takes place, stress wipes out your short-term memory and all you have left is your most basic instinct. (4) The moment the stress suppresses their short-term memory, they still have some residue of experience to draw on. That's why divers, when panicking, couldn't notice that they usually have a backup supply of air with them. They also forget that their partners have a working supply of air that can be easily shared during emergency. (5) Choking is about thinking too much. Panic is about thinking too little. Choking is about loss of instinct. Panic is reversion to instinct. They may look the same, but they are worlds apart.